Let's talk a little bit about
the standards and guidelines, and
we'll use these web specific standards.
To kind of guide and shape all of the
features that we build and all the stuff
that we talk about going forward, so
there's kind of three main things to know.
These all fall under the W3C,
which is the standards body that's
responsible for HTML and CSS as well.
So there is the actual specification,
the web content, and
accessibility guidelines,
we'll dive into this WCAG.
So this is a good access acronym to know,
there's the W3C's Web Accessibility
Initiative, so this is the group itself,
the group is way.
And then while the WCAG kind of
specifies what is necessary,
there's also this WAI-ARIA spec,
which kind of helps make rich
Internet applications, or,
robust applications, more accessible.
So maybe a quick show of hands,
has anybody ever seen or
added an ARIA tag to their HTML already?
Like an aria?
Okay, cool, so a lot of people,
that's great, yeah.
So it's like even people who haven't done
specialized accessibility work often
have at least seen them
existing in HTML before.
Whether it's like ARIA labeled by or
described by or maybe a role or something
like that, is a really nice way to get
your feet wet with accessibility, great.
So yeah, these are the three
main groups to know, so there's
the kind of core group under W3C, they
put out this standard of the guidelines.
And then they also work on a specification
for making HTML more rich and
giving it new APIs so
you can do new things with it.
So the W3C, for those not familiar,
is the World Wide Web Consortium,
and they're an international
standards body.
So again, their main kind of standards
that they work on are HTML, CSS, and
accessibility.
I mentioned earlier that I sit on TC 39,
which is under a different standards body,
which is ECMA.
And so there's kind of this distinction
where things that go into the JavaScript
language, like your arrow functions and
constant let things like that.
Those fall under the purview of ECMA,
whereas browser specific APIs,
like maybe the Performance API,
those fall under the umbrella of the W3C.
This is really just for publishing and
legal reasons, in truth,
the groups often work
pretty well together, and
things kind of get slated into the
appropriate group based on the feature.
But the W3C is great, they're like a big
open consortium, they publish all of their
notes, all of their standards documents,
everything like that.
And they are very easy to contribute to,
so yeah,
you can kind of get started by checking
out w3.org so way, as I mentioned,
is this web accessibility initiative.
So they are a group or an initiative
underneath the umbrella of the W3C, and
their job is to basically have this
focus on accessibility and create and
publish accessibility specifications.
So the WAI are the authors of WCAG,
which is the specification itself, and
you can check out more on them
on the w3.org/ WAI website.
And then WCAG itself is
the standard published by WAI,
these acronyms are a little bit similar.
So I kind of just wanted to go through
this to make sure we understand,
what is a group, what is a document, and
what is the overarching standards body.
So, yeah, so
they always have their standards up
to date posted on their website.
And this is great, as we go into these
accessibility tools like Lighthouse and
these linters and things like that,
they are creating their
rules off of this document.
So the document is the standard, and then
everybody else makes tools that enforce or
detect rule violations in the document.
And then the last thing is WAI-ARIA,
so this is a crossover,
it is a standard as well as this kind of
robust set of APIs implemented by HTML.
So WAI will decide that we need some
way of doing some new cool thing, and
they'll make a standard for it, and
the standard will get approved.
And then HTML will pick that up and
implement it in the form of ARIA tags or
roles or something like that,
that belong to HTML buttons or elements.
Cool, one other group that I really like,
so
we're kind of done with
the official standard stuff now,
is there's this independent advocacy group
called WebAIM that I'm a very big fan of.
They sort of parse through the spec and
the standard, and
they come up with these very
easy to digest sets of rules.
That are like, hey, I read the standard,
and this is what it says about focus
elements, like you need a ring, and
it needs this contrast, and
it needs a visual indicator.
And so they have a website, webaim.org,
and as we go through the course,
I often will use WebAIM because they
have these really well constructed,
easy to digest rules.
But WebAIM is really just basing those
rules off of the standard itself, so
I think WebAIM is just this independent
group that provides some very nice,
easy to digest ways of
interpreting the specs.
So we're not all sitting and reading
through this like 10,000 page spec,
basically.
Cool, so within accessibility
there are conformance levels,
and so we'll see this quite a bit,
I think.
I already had a few slides
that mentioned AA before,
but there's basically A, AA and AAA.
And A is the lowest level of conformance,
AA is mid range, AAA is highest.
And so basically the tldr,
if we wanted to get away from it,
is we should try to stick AA compliant.
That's usually where the legal
ramifications come in,
is failing to adhere to AA compliance.
However, I think that AAA compliance is
just excellent to read if you wanna know
how to take your application
to that next level.
From being technically usable
to being really robust and
enjoyable to people with disabilities.
So for the legal side,
we'll focus on AA, but
we'll often throughout this course talk
about what is mentioned in the AAA
compliance because I think doing a little
bit of extra work can make a huge impact.
Cool, and then the last thing to cover
over here is this concept that WCAG puts
out called the POUR principles,
I really like them,
they're just kind of a high level
way of thinking about accessibility.
So POUR stands for perceivable, operable,
understandable, and robust, and
then each section has
this little perceivable.
Users can recognize either via sight,
hearing, or touch the information,
operable means they can navigate and
operate the website using input methods.
So kind of distilling these things down,
like the information that you receive,
should be receivable either
in one of these three ways.
And then using the website,
like your buttons, your forms,
things like that,
users should be able to do that.
Understandable, the content
needs to make sense, and
then robust would be basically like if
you have these assistive technologies.
There's basically support for
all of them in order to kind of
interact with the website and use it.
So I kind of like thinking about these
things as the overarching concepts when
we're making our websites accessible,
like making sure that they theoretically
meet all four of these categories.